---
layout: post
title: "RL Course by David Silver Notes"
date: 2018-12-14
---

### Lecture 10: Classic Games

-   Nash equilibrium is a joint policy for all players, so a way for others to pick actions such that every single player is playing the best response to all other players, i.e. no player would choose from Nash.
    
-   Single-Agent and Self-Play Reinforcement Learning: Nash equilibrium is fixed-point of self-play RL. Experience is generated by playing games between agents. Each agent learns best response to other players. One player’s policy determines another player’s environment.
    
-   Two-Player Zero-Sum Games: A two-player game has two (alternating) players: <b><i>R<sub>1</sub> + R<sub>2</sub> = 0</i></b>.
    

### Lecture 9: Exploration and Exploitation

-   Three methods of exploration and exploitation:
    

	-   Random exploration: e.g. ε-greedy
    
	-   Optimism in the face of uncertainty: estimate uncertainty on value, prefer to explore states/actions with highest uncertainty.
    
	-   Information state space: consider agent's information as part of its state, lookahead to see how information helps reward.
    

-   Types of exploration:
    

	-   State-action exploration: e.g. pick different action <b><i>A</i></b> each time in state <b><i>S</i></b>.
    
	-   Parameter exploration: parameterize policy <b><i>π (A | S , u)</i></b>, e.g.  pick different parameters and try for a while.
    

-   Multi-Armed Bandit:
    

	-   One-step decision making problem.
	    
	-   No state space, no transition function.
    
	-   <b><i>R \(r\) = P [ R = r | A = a ]</i></b> is an unknown probability distribution over rewards.
	    
	-   Regret is a function of gaps and the counts.
	    
	-   ε-greedy has linear total regret. To resolve this, pick a decay schedule for <i><b>ε<sub>1</sub>, ε<sub>2</sub></b></i>, ... . However, it's not possible to use because <i><b>V*</b></i> is needed to calculate the gaps.
	    
	-   One can transform multi-armed bandit problem into a sequential decision making problem.
	    
	-   Define an MDP over information states.
	    
	-   At each step, information state <i><b>S'</b></i> summarizes all information accumulated so far.
	    
	-   MDP can then be solved by RL.
    

-   Contextual Bandits:
    

	-   <i><b>S = P [ S ]</b></i> is an unknown distribution over states(or "contexts").
	    
	-   <i><b>R \(r\) = P [ R = r | S = s, A = a ]</b></i> is an unknown probability distribution over rewards.
    

-   MDPs:
    

	-   For unknown or poorly estimated states, replace reward function with <i><b>r<sub>max</sub></b></i>. Means to be very optimistic about uncertain states.
	    
	-   Augmented MDP: includes information state so that <i><b>S' = (S , I)</b></i>.
    

### Lecture 8: Integrating Learning and Planning

-   So far, the course covered model-free RL.
    
-   Last lecture: learn policy directly from experience; Previous lectures: learn value function directly from experience; This lecture: learn model directly from experience.
    
-   Use <b>planning</b> to construct a value function or policy.
    
-   Model-Based RL:
	-   Plan value function (and/or policy) from model.
	-   Advantages:
		-   Can learn model by supervised learning methods.
		-   Car reason about model uncertainty.
	-   Disadvantages:
		-   First learn a model, then construct a value function: two sources of approximation error.
    -   Model is a parametrized representation of the MDP, i.e. representing state transitions and rewards.
	-   Learning <i><b>s, a → r</b></i> is a regression problem.
	-   Learning <i><b>s, a → s'</b></i> is a density estimation problem.
	-   Planning the MDP = Solving the MDP, i.e. figure out what's the best thing to do.
	-   Planning algorithms: value iteration, policy iteration, tree search, ...
-   Integrated Architectures:
	-   Put together the best parts of model-free and model-based RL.
	-   Two sources of experience: real: sampled from environment (true MDP); simulated: sampled from model (approximate MDP).
	-   Dyna:
	    -   Learn a model from real experience.    
		-   Learn and plan value function from real and simulated experience.
-   Simulation-Based Search:
    -   Forward search: select best action by lookahead. Doesn't explore the entire state space. Builds a search tree with current s as the root. Uses a model of MDP to look ahead. Doesn't solve the whole MDP, just sub-MDP starting from now.
	-   Simulation-based search is a forward search paradigm using sample-based planning.
	-   Simulates episodes of experience from now with the model.
	-   Applies model-free RL to simulated episodes.
    

### Lecture 7: Policy Gradient Methods

-   Policy gradient methods optimize the policy directly, instead of the value function.
    
-   Parametrize the policy: <i><b>π<sub>θ</sub> (s, a) = P [a | s, θ]</b></i>
    
-   Point of using policy gradient methods is to being able to scale.
    
-   Nash equilibrium is the game theoretic notion of optimality.
    
-   Finite Difference Policy Gradient:
    

	-   For each dimension in <i><b>θ</b></i> parameters, perturbing <i><b>θ</b></i> by small amount <i><b>ε</b></i>. (look at the formula)
	    
	-   Uses <i><b>n</b></i> evaluations to compute policy gradient in <i><b>n</b></i> dimension.
	    
	-   Simple, noisy, inefficient.
	    
	-   Works for arbitrary policies.
    

-   Monte-Carlo Policy Gradient:
    

	-   Score function is <i><b>∇<sub>θ</sub> log π<sub>θ</sub> (s, a)</b></i>
	    
	-   In continuous action spaces, Gaussian policy should be used.
	    
	-   REINFORCE: update parameters by stochastic gradient ascent.
	    
	-   Has high variance.
    

-   Actor-Critic Policy Gradient:
    

	-   Use a critic to estimate the action-value function.
	    
	-   Critic: updates action-value function parameters <i><b>w</b></i>.
	    
	-   Actor: updates policy parameters <i><b>θ</b></i> in direction suggested by critic.
	    
	-   Approximating the policy gradient introduces bias.
	    
	-   Using baseline function <i><b>B</b></i> to reduce variance. Value function <i><b>V</b></i> could be a good baseline.
	    
	-   Using advantage function to reduce the variance: <i><b>Q<sub>π</sub> (s, a) - V<sub>π</sub> (s)</b></i>
	    
	-   Critic estimates the advantage function.
    

### Lecture 6: Value Function Approximation

-   Large scale RL problems because of the huge state spaces become non-tabular.
    
-   So far, we had <i><b>V(s)</b></i> or <i><b>Q(s, a)</b></i>. But with large scale problems, calculating them takes too much memory and time. Solution: estimate the value function with function approximation:
    
    <i><b>v' (s, w) ≈ v<sub>π</sub> (s)</b></i> or <i><b>q' (s, a, w) ≈ q<sub>π</sub> (s, a)</b></i>

	Generalize from seen states to unseen ones. Update parameter <i><b>w</b></i> using MC or TD learning.

-   Incremental Methods:
    

	-   Table lookup is a special case of linear value function approximation.
	    
	-   Target value function for MC is the return <i><b>G<sub>t</sub></b></i> and for TD is the λ-return <i><b>G<sup>λ <sub>t</sub></sup></b></i>
	    
	-   Gradient descent is simple and appealing.
    

-   Batch Methods:
    

	-   GD is not sample efficient.
	    
	-   Least squares algorithms find parameter vector <i><b>w</b></i> minimizing sum squared error.
	    
	-   Example: experience replay in DQN.
    

### Lecture 5: Model Free Control

-   On-policy Learning:
    

	-   Learn about policy π from experience sampled from π.
	    
	-   Ɛ-greedy Exploration:
	    

		-   With probability = 1 - Ɛ choose the greedy action. With probability = Ɛ choose a random action.
		    
		-   Guarantees to have improvements.
	    

	-   Greedy in the Limit of Infinite Exploration(GLIE):
	    

		-   All state-action pairs are explored infinitely many times.
	    
	-   Policy converges to the greedy policy.
	    

	-   SARSA:
	    

		-   <i><b>Q(S, A) ← Q(S, A) + ⍺ * (R + γ * Q(S', A') - Q(S, A))</b></i>
		    
		-   Converges to the optimal action-value function, under some conditions.
    

-   Off-policy Learning:
    

	-   Learn about policy <i><b>π</b></i> from experience sampled from <i><b>μ</b></i>.
	    
	-   Evaluate target policy <i><b>π (a|s)</b></i> to compute <i><b>v<sub>π</sub> (s)</b></i> or <i><b>q<sub>π</sub> (s, a)</b></i> while following the behavior policy <i><b>μ (a|s)</b></i>.
	    
	-   Can learn from observing human behaviors or other agents.
	    
	-   Learn optimal policy while following exploratory policy.
	    
	-   Monte-carlo learning doesn't work in off-policy learning, because of really high variance. Over many steps, the target policy and the behavior policy never match enough to be useful.
	    
	-   Using TD leaning, it works best. Because policies only need to be similar over one step.
	    
	-   Q-Learning:
	    

		-  <i><b> S'</b></i> is gathered using the behavior policy.
		    
		-   <i><b>Q(S, A) ← Q(S, A) + ⍺ * (R + γ * Q(S, A') - Q(S, A))</b></i>
		    
		-   Converges to the optimal action-value function.
    

### Lecture 4: Model-Free Prediction

-   Bootstrapping: update involves estimated rewards.
    
-   Monte-Carlo Learning:
    

	-   In a nutshell, goes all the way through the trajectory and estimates the value by looking at the sample returns.
	    
	-   Useful only for episodic(terminating) settings, and applies once an episode is complete. No bootstrapping.
	    
	-   High variance, zero bias.
	    
	-   Not exploit Markov property. In partially observed environments, MC is a better choice.
    

-   Temporal-Difference Learning:
    

	-   Looks one step ahead, and then estimates the return.
	    
	-   Uses bootstrapping to learn, so learns from incomplete episodes. Does online learning.
	    
	-   Low variance, some bias.
	    
	-   Exploits Markov property. Implicitly building MDP structure and solving for that MDP structure(refer to the AB example). More efficient in Markov environments.
	    
	-   TD(λ): looks into λ steps of the future to update. Also λ can be defined as averaging over all n-step returns.
    

### Lecture 3: Planning by Dynamic Programming

-   Value Iteration:
    

	-   Goal: find optimal policy <i><b>π</b></i>
	    
	-   Start with an arbitrary value function: <i><b>v<sub>1</sub></b></i>  and apply Bellman backup to get to  <i><b>v<sub>2</sub></b></i>  and finally <i><b>v*</b></i>.
	    
	-   Unlike policy iteration, there is no explicit policy.
	    
	-   Intermediate value functions may not correspond to any policy.
	    
	-   Will converge.
	    
	-   Intuition: start with final reward and work backwards.
	        

-   Policy Iteration:
    

	-   Given a policy <i><b>π</b></i> (any policy works):
	    

	-   Evaluate the policy: <i><b>V<sub>π</sub> (s) = E [ R<sub>(t+1)</sub> + γ * R<sub>(t+2)</sub> + ... | S<sub>t</sub> = s ]</b></i>
	    
	-   Improve the policy: <i><b>π' = greedy ( V<sub>π</sub> )</b></i>
	    
	-   Will converge.
    

-   Policy Evaluation:
    

	-   Start with an arbitrary value function: <i><b>v<sub>1</sub></b></i>  and apply Bellman backup to get to <i><b>v<sub>2</sub></b></i>  and finally <i><b>v<sub>π</sub></b></i>.
	    
	-   Use both synchronous and asynchronous backups.
	    
	-   Will converge.
	    
	-   <i><b>V<sup>(k+1)</sup> = R<sup>π</sup> + γ * P<sup>π</sup> * V<sup>k</sup></b></i>
    

-   Input: <i><b>MDP(S, A, P, R, γ)</b></i> - Output: optimal value function <i><b>V*</b></i> and optimal policy <i><b>π*</b></i>
    
-   In planning full knowledge of MDP is given. We want to solve the MPD, i.e. finding a policy.
    
-   MDPs satisfy both DP properties.
    
-   Dynamic programming applies to problems that have:
    

	-   Optimal substructure.
	    
	-   Overlapping subproblems.
    

-   Dynamic Programming: method for solving complex problems. Breaking them down into subproblems. Solve subproblems and combine solutions.
    

	-   Dynamic: sequential component to the problem.
	    
	-   Programming: a mapping, e.g. a policy.
    

### Lecture 2: Markov Decision Process

-   Partial ordering over policies:
    
    <i><b>π' >= π</b></i> if <i><b>v<sub>π'</sub> (s) >= v<sub>π</sub> (s), ∀ s </b></i>

-   Action-Value function Q is the same as value function, but also takes action as input:
    
    <i><b>Q<sub>π</sub> (s, a) = E<sub>π</sub> [G<sub>t</sub> | S<sub>t</sub> = s, A<sub>t</sub> = a] = E<sub>π</sub> [R<sub>(t+1)</sub> + γ * Q<sub>π</sub> (S<sub>(t+1)</sub>, A<sub>(t+1)</sub>) | S<sub>t</sub> = s, A<sub>t</sub> = a]</b></i>

-   Policy is a distribution over actions given states:
    <i><b>π (a | s) = P [ A<sub>t</sub> = a | S<sub>t</sub> = s]</b></i>
	
	Policies are stationary:
<i><b>A<sub>t</sub> ~ π (. | S<sub>t</sub>), ∀ t > 0</b></i>


-   The returns are random samples, the value function is an expectation over there random samples.
    
-   Value function:
    <i><b>v<sub>π</sub> (s) = E<sub>π</sub> [G<sub>t</sub> | S<sub>t</sub> = s] = E<sub>π</sub> [R<sub>(t+1)</sub> + γ * v<sub>π</sub> (S<sub>(t+1)</sub>) | S<sub>t</sub> = s]</b></i>
    
    It also can be expressed using matrices:
 <i><b>v<sub>π</sub> = R<sub>π</sub> + γ * ρ<sub>π</sub> * v</b></i>

-   Total discounted reward from state <i><b>t</b></i>:
    <i><b>G<sub>t</sub> = R<sub>(t+1)</sub> + γ * R<sub>(t+2)</sub> + γ<sup>2</sup> * R<sub>(t+3)</sub> ... + γ<sup>(T-1)</sup> * R<sub>T</sub></b></i>

-   Why having discount factor?
    

	-   Uncertainty in the future.
	    
	-   Mathematically convenient.
	    
	-   Avoids cycles.
	    
	-   Immediate rewards worth more that delayed rewards.
    

-   Reward function:
    <i><b>R = E [R<sub>(t+1)</sub> | S<sub>t</sub> = s, A<sub>t</sub> = a]</b></i>

-   Sample episodes from a MDP: different iterations over different states in each episode.
    
-   State transition probability:
    <i><b>ρ<sub>ss'</sub> = P [S<sub>(t+1)</sub> = s′ | S<sub>t</sub> = s, A<sub>t</sub> = a]</b></i>

-   Showing an ad on a website is actually a bandit problem.
    
-   Almost all RL problems can be modeled using MDPs.
    

### Lecture 1: Introduction to Reinforcement Learning

-   Planning: rules of the game are given, perfect model inside agent's head, plan ahead to find optimal policy(look ahead search or tree search).
    
-   In RL environment is unknown, in planning environment is known.
    
-   Types of RL agents:
    

	-   Policy based
	    
	-   Value function based
	    
	-   Actor critic(combines policy and value function)
    

-   Agent's model is a representation of the environment in the agent's head.
    
-   Agent is our brain, is the algorithm we come up with.
    
-   To get the maximum expected reward, risk is already included.
    
-   Value function: goodness/badness of states, so can be used to select between actions.
    
-   Fully observability: agent sees the environment state.
    
-   Data are not iid.
    
-   Reward is delayed.
    
-   There is only a reward signal, no supervision.
    

Reinforcement learning is the science of decision making.
